# TikTok
Classification of TikTok videos

# Overview
The goal of this project is to use statsmodel and scikit learn to predict whether videos presented claims or opinions to improve the triaging process of videos for human review. This project uses a dataset called tiktok_dataset.csv . It contains synthetic data created for this project in partnership with TikTok. Both random forest and XGBoost model architecture resulted in nearly perfect model. But random forest was having a better recall score, as identifying claims was the priority. Based on random forest model, most predictive features were all related to user engagement levels associated with each videos. It was classifying videos based on how many views, likes, shares, and downloads they received.

# Business Understanding
In today's fast paced digital world, TikTok and other platforms face a big challenge in reviewing a lot of user content. The current way of doing this takes a lot of time and resources causing delays that can hurt the user experience and the platform's reputation. By creating a model that can automatically recognizes the types of content. TikTok can make the review process much faster and more accurate, reducing the workload for human moderators. This will help improve the platforms reputation and make it safer for users, while also aligning with the companies goal of using resources better and keeping users happy in a competitve market.

# Data Understanding
The TikTok dataset contains a synthetic data created for this project in partnership with TikTok. The dataset contains 19K unique published TikTok Videos in which a claim or an opinion has been made. It has 12 features that includes information about claim status, video likes, downloads, video_shares, etc.
The most predictive features were related to engagement levels generated by the video. This is not unexpected, as analysis from EDA pointed this conclusion. The model performed almost perfectly, so no new features were engineered.

# Modeling and Evaluation
Both random forest and XGBoost model architecture resulted in nearly perfect models. However, identifying claims was the priority. so it's important that the model is good at capturing all actual claim videos. Taking this into consideration, Random Forest model which has better recall score is the champion model. The below plot show that the model's most predictive features that were based on How many views, likes, shares, and downloads, the video had received. One can recommend this model because it performed well on both validation and test holdout data.

# Conclusion
As the current model performed nearly well in classifying claims and opinions, it will reduce the workload of human moderators by reducing the backlog of user reports and prioritize them more efficiently. However, in the future, it would be helpful to have the number of times the video was reported. It would also be useful to have the total number of user reports for all the videos posted by each author. 
